THE PUMPKIN PLAN
A Simple Strategy to Grow a Remarkable Business in Any Field

by Mike Michalowicz

THE SUMMARY IN BRIEF

Each year Americans start 1 million new businesses, nearly 80 percent of which fail within the first five years. Under such pressure to stay alive — let alone grow — it's easy for entrepreneurs to get caught up in a never-ending cycle of "sell it — do it, sell it — do it" that leaves them exhausted, frustrated and unable to get ahead no matter how hard they try.

This is the exact situation Mike Michalowicz found himself in when he was trying to grow his first company. Although it was making steady money, there was never very much left over and he was chasing customers left and right, putting in 28-hour days, eight days a week.

After reading an article about a local farmer who had dedicated his life to growing giant pumpkins, Michalowicz realized the same process could apply to growing a business. He tested the Pumpkin Plan on his own company and transformed it into a remarkable, multimillion-dollar industry leader. First, he did it for himself; then, for others; and now, you.

With additional stories of other successful entrepreneurs, The Pumpkin Plan guides you through unconventional strategies to help you build a truly profitable blue-ribbon company that is the best in its field.

IN THIS SUMMARY, YOU WILL LEARN:

How to free yourself from the "sell it — do it, sell it — do it" trap.

How to identify and leverage your biggest natural strengths.

How to identify your top clients and remove the rest of your less-promising clients.

How to get your business into a sweet spot with the right clients, offerings and systematization.
A HALF-TON PUMPKIN IS ABOUT TO SAVE YOUR LIFE

Five years as an entrepreneur under my belt and I had nothing.

I was a freakin' slave to my business and all I had to show for it was stress-induced red blotches all over my face (never did find out what those were). The hours were insane, and when I did spend time with my wife and our 5-year-old son, it was fake time — I was on my laptop, or on the phone, or talking business, or thinking about business — completely unfocused on the two most important people in my life.

Enter Frank, my personal Yoda. I met him at my first ever chamber of commerce meeting. He really didn't care if you hired him to coach you. He didn't have to care — as president of a major medical services company, he had taken the company from $8 million to $80 million without breaking a sweat, so he didn't need the work or the money.

I did hire him and I tried to follow his advice. I tried to become Frank's definition of an entrepreneur, which, I later learned, is the only definition of an entrepreneur: "You're not an entrepreneur yet, Mike. Entrepreneurs don't do most of the work. Entrepreneurs identify the problems, discover the opportunities and then build processes to allow other people and other things to do the work."

THE HOLY GRAIL IN THE PUMPKIN PATCH

It was October and the local newspaper ran an article about a farmer who grew a gigantic, prize-winning pumpkin.

Here's how the article broke down the pumpkin-growing process:

Step One: Plant promising seeds.

Step Two: Water, water, water.

Step Three: As they grow, routinely remove all the diseased or damaged pumpkins.

Step Four: Weed like a mad dog. Not a single green leaf or root permitted if it isn't a pumpkin plant.

Step Five: When they grow larger, identify the stronger, faster-growing pumpkins. Then, remove all the less-promising pumpkins. Repeat until you have one pumpkin on each vine.

Step Six: Focus all your attention on the big pumpkin. Nurture it around the clock like a baby, and guard it like you would your first Mustang convertible.

Step Seven: Watch it grow. In the last days of the season, this will happen so fast you can actually see it happen.

There it was, in black and white ... and orange. The answer I'd been looking for, for years. I needed to treat my company like a giant pumpkin.

A SLOW, MISERABLE DEATH

When our businesses are in a state of collapse, entrepreneurs go through three stages. First, we deny that we're struggling. You know what I am talking about. Someone asks how your business is going and you say, "Great! Just landed a big client!" But inside you can feel your lungs compress as the stress builds. Things aren't great. Money is draining away, fast. But you're afraid to admit you're struggling because what if people think you're not capable? What if future prospects ignore you? What if your team begins to doubt you? In Stage One of the collapse, entrepreneurs deny the truth because our egos can't handle it.

Enter Stage Two. For many, the stress at this point has become a fact of life. Wake up stressed. Go to bed stressed. Stress about being stressed. In some perverted way, you start to be proud of how stressed you are. It looks a little different, but it's still ego.

In Stage Three we just throw our hands in the air (there's that defeatism again) and say, "Life sucks," as if fate had anything to do with it (it doesn't) and our success or failure is completely out of our hands (it isn't). All the fight is gone.

In case you've missed the news for the last few years — which, considering your schedule, is a good possibility — each year, according to the U.S. Department of Labor, Americans start 1 million new businesses, and yet nearly 80 percent of these businesses fail within the first five years. Eighty percent, people.

The problem is, entrepreneurs are stuck. Not sure if you're stuck? Let's find out.

If you've heard yourself say, "If I could just get one more client (or project or deal or major sale), I would finally make it," or if your business is dependent on you to do the work, or if you think your dream is just that — a dream — you're trapped. But I know a way out.

WORK THE PLAN — TAKE ACTION IN 30 MINUTES (OR LESS)

Revisit the dream. When all you can think about is how to cover next week's payroll, that dream may seem out of reach. Still, it's that dream that keeps you from giving up. You need that dream now, more than ever. So, right now, revisit the dream that inspired you to launch your company in the first place. Write it down and keep it handy to review it ... because we're about to make it happen.

THE SEED

All the giant pumpkins you see on the six o'clock news — no matter whether you're watching from your couch in Topeka or your recliner in St. Paul — come from the same lineage of seeds, the Dill's Atlantic Giant variety started by the godfather of giant pumpkins, the late Howard Dill of Nova Scotia, Canada.

The reason this is relevant to you is because in order to build the most successful company you possibly can, you need to start with your own Atlantic Giant seed.

When you first started your business, you, like me, probably planted a lot of different kinds of seeds. You had a ton of great ideas, welcomed every type of client with open arms and busted your butt trying to make those seeds grow. You watered and watered ... and watered ... until you were drowning. Some seeds worked out better than others, growing perfectly acceptable pumpkins ... I mean, profits. But other seeds just withered and died even after you spent precious resources you really didn't have trying to keep them alive. Other seeds just never even pushed through the soil at all.

Don't waste your time planting seeds that may or may not work out. Plant the seed that you know has the very best chance of making it, and then focus your attention, money, time and other resources on that tight niche until all of your entrepreneurial dreams come true.

FINDING YOUR OWN GIANT SEED

Your giant seed is basically your sweet spot — the place where your best clients and the best part of your business meet. This is the place where your favorite customers are able to derive maximum benefit from the systematized, core process that drives your business.

In The Toilet Paper Entrepreneur, I talked about the importance of focusing on one Area of Innovation (AOI) and explained the three types: quality, price and convenience. Nobody can be the de facto leader in all three areas simultaneously. Many try, and all fail.

Combine your AOI and your No. 1 strength with your life and your business experience — experience that no one else has because they're just not you — and you've discovered how your company is authentically different than the competition.

To get to your sweet spot, you also have to take into account your ability to systematize every aspect of your business. As your business grows over time, it should become easier to systematize, not harder. Things will come naturally to you, you'll build more contacts and you'll have more people on your team who know how things work. So when you consider your ability to systematize, ask yourself, "Is this easy to do today, and can I keep making it easier and easier over time?"

TREATING YOUR COMPANY LIKE A GIANT PUMPKIN

Step One: Identify and leverage your biggest natural strengths.

Step Two: Sell, sell, sell.

Step Three: As your business grows, fire all your small-time, rotten clients.

Step Four: Never, ever let distractions — often labeled as new opportunities — take hold. Weed 'em out fast.

Step Five: Identify your top clients and remove the rest of your less-promising clients.

Step Six: Focus all your attention on your top clients. Nurture and protect them; find out what they want more than anything, and if it's in alignment with what you do best, give it to them. Then, replicate that same service or product for as many of the same types of top clients as possible.

Step Seven: Watch your company grow to a giant size.

ASSESS THE VINE

When my pal AJ Harper started her freelance writing business in 2005, she said yes to every job she could get. She wrote articles, books, blog posts — anything and everything. The thing was, even though she made enough to live on, she wasn't making it, not really. She worked seven days a week and still ended up borrowing money from her folks to get by. Worse, she spent hours every day bidding on new projects to get new clients.

Fast-forward six years, and she's making it. She's got a team working under her, and together they turn out book after amazing book for her company, Book Lab. The other day we were chatting over chili dogs and root beer. She explained how she started to turn things around.

"A couple of years in, I realized I had a handful of clients I loved working with, and they all had a few things in common," she said. "They all had the goods, meaning they weren't a bunch of blowhards with empty promises for readers. They all had the stamina and the will to get their books out into the world. And most importantly, they respected me, which meant we could collaborate — and that's what I love best."

So she focused on her better clients and stopped trying to get more clients. Within a matter of a month, new prospects started calling her after being referred by her top clients. And because she had new qualifiers for clients (have the goods, have stamina, have respect), she said yes only to those who fit and no to those who didn't. She hasn't bid on a project or marketed her business in any way since 2007. More isn't better. Better is better.

THE ASSESSMENT CHART

When it comes to rating clients or customers, there are some pretty basic qualifiers that apply to all businesses. Do they pay on time, when they feel like it or not at all? Do they refer others to you, or do they keep you all to themselves? Do they respect your expertise, or do they consistently undermine or question you?

You can make your own Assessment Chart, or you can go online and download the one I made for you at www.PumpkinPlan.com/Resources. I've included all the basic qualifiers and space for you to add your own. Here's how you make it:

List your clients in descending order of revenue.

Now, put a line through the clients who make you cringe when you hear their names.

Create a column for each of the following qualifiers:

Pays Fast. Do they pay on time or early?

Repeat Revenue. Do they use your services or purchase from you on a regular basis?

Revenue Potential. Could they generate a significant amount of revenue for you in the future?

Communication. Do they communicate well with you?

Fix It. When you make a mistake, will they tell you, give you a chance to fix it and forgive you when you do?

Grade each client in each column. Be honest — don't give them more credit than they're due. This is your livelihood.

Now create new columns for the following less crucial qualifiers:

Opportunity. Does working with them give you opportunities you wouldn't have had otherwise, such as introductions to key partners?

Referrals. Do they refer others to you and/or are they willing to?

History. Do you have a long-established history working with this client, making you feel confident you understand how they behave in all situations?

Add blank columns for any additional qualifiers you came up with.

Place a "Y" (yes) or "N" (no) in each of the non-crucial columns. Use this as a tiebreaker when identifying top clients. For example, if you have two clients who both score a B on the crucial rating scale, find out which of these clients has more Y's than N's in your non-crucial columns.
If you sell products to hundreds of customers, go with the top 5, 10 or 20 percent of your clientele. One common mistake entrepreneurs make when assessing clients is to unconsciously tweak their answers to key questions in order to play favorites. The fix for this is to have a third party look over your Assessment Chart, someone who knows your business and your clients but who does not share your agenda or your preconceived notions.

By now you should have a clear picture of the clients who are awesome and those who are anything but. You know the cringe-worthy clients are on their way out, but now you also know which seemingly decent clients just aren't measuring up.

HOW WE DO THINGS DOWN ON THE FARM

Now it's time to remove the weeds, the diseased pumpkins and any other distractions so that your existing top clients, and other new clients just like them, can start blossoming. If this step totally freaks you out, go back to your Assessment Chart and find the client who is the biggest pain in the ass and who, when fired, will have the least financial impact on your business.

So how do you fire a client? Here are four ways to go about it, without straight-up telling them ... or actually killing them. (Last time I checked, that was pretty much outlawed in all 50 states ... Jersey is questionable.)

Eliminate services. For example, you might eliminate a specific service, or you might eliminate servicing a specific type of company (the same type of company your sucky client has ... what a coincidence). Explain that "We have shifted all our resources to serve an industry other than yours, and we can no longer help you."

Prioritize the stars. Simply prioritize your best clients. When the good ones call, they get serviced first. The cringers will get the hint. Sure, it's a little bit Mean Girls, but it gets the job done.

Raise prices. And I don't mean a measly 10 or 20 percent. Increase your fees until it becomes prohibitive for the client. In rare cases, some clients will just rise to the occasion, paying you seriously good money just to keep working with you. And because these people probably want to work with you, they'll probably be nicer, too.

Refuse to two-time. Another way of breaking ties with a diseased client is to explain to them that you have an agreement with a major client that prohibits you from servicing them any longer. Now, I am not suggesting you create a contract or any of that; the goal here is to have an explanation for the break.
THE TOURNIQUET TECHNIQUE

Let me fill you in on Luke. He's been one project away from making it for eight years. Eight years. He doesn't pay himself much — a full-time job at Mickey D's would net more cash — but he does pay eight employees, with a little help from his wife and his parents. Luke is in so deep, there are only two ways out: cut expenses or close up shop. So I give it to him straight: "You have to fire someone."

He was horrified. I wasn't surprised. I get it. I do. I've had to let truly amazing people go during lean times, and it has dropped me to my knees in a sobbing mess. No question, it sucks. But you know what sucks more? Letting everyone go, including yourself, because of bankruptcy.

THE RIGHT WAY TO STAFF A GIANT PUMPKIN

Your main objective is to serve the hell out of your top clients, so your org chart (let's just abbreviate, shall we?) should support that. So first, you need to create the ideal org chart — one that, if actualized, would enable you to support your top clients efficiently and with ease. No stress. No freak-outs. No missed deadlines. What would that look like? Would you eliminate certain positions? Would you create a new role? Would you set up teams to share the load?

At this stage, your organization is not about your personnel; it's about the positions. Think about the roles and responsibilities of the positions that best serve your top clients. The key is to draw the ideal chart and then plug in the pieces of your existing business that fit properly. Awareness is everything, and one of the best ways you can get real about your staff is to create visual representations of your ideal chart and your actual chart. When you can see how it should be and also how it is, you can then shift people and responsibilities around until you can't tell the two charts apart.

PLAY FAVORITES AND BREAK RULES

Now that you've ranked your customers, fired the diseased troublemakers, redirected your unfit customers, cut unnecessary expenses and put in a healthy root system (your new org chart), your next objective is to focus your energy on your core client group. Your goal — your mission — is to keep these folks so happy you obliterate the possibility that they would ever leave you for the competition.

Now I'm not saying you should ignore all your other clients or treat them poorly. As a general rule, don't skimp on the quality of product or service. It's bad for business.

But do develop a different approach for your top clients. Push them to the front of the line. Drop everything for them. Interrupt meetings to deal with their crises. Dream up new and better ways to serve them. Anticipate their needs. Give them first dibs on new products or services. And most importantly, go out of your way to help them grow their businesses.

THE WISH LIST

John Shaw from Colorado is a giant, solar panel-installin' Pumpkin Planner in a really, really saturated field. His business went through the roof (pun intended) when he stopped installing solar hot water systems — effectively killing off the clients who, through no fault of their own, seriously ate up his time and dipped into his profit margin. But that wasn't the end of John's stellar growing season. John supersized his business when he figured out what frustrated his prospects the most and then did something about it.

John knew that in Durango, there were two different government rebate programs for people who switched over to solar energy and that these saved clients around $6,000 on the installation of a system that could cost upward of $25,000. He knew that many prospective clients wanted to install solar panels, but they just could not swing it because they didn't have the upfront cash.

John listened carefully to his clients and prospects, asked questions, took note of their frustrations with his industry, and then did some recon. After a bit of research he discovered how some solar companies in Northern California expanded their market beyond their wealthy clientele and made solar energy accessible to people who wouldn't normally be able to afford it. John decided to try it out in Colorado.

John had $50,000 or so in cash reserves and realized he could probably float the $6,000 for some clients until the rebates came in, effectively solving the cash-poor problem many prospects complained about. "I started giving clients temporary loans based on the total amount they would get back from state and local rebate programs," John explained to me. "It only takes a few months to get the rebates. I fill out all of the paperwork and I have the rebate check sent straight to me, so there's no real risk." Pure Pumpkin Planning genius.

You see, a Pumpkin Planner's success is not in having better answers ... it is in asking better questions, better defining the problem. When you do this, the answers present themselves. The best answer, is obvious.

LET THEM LEAD

What if you could be sure that every time — and I do mean every time — you launch a new product or service, you absolutely, positively knew it would not fail?

Screw the "what ifs."

Because you totally can.

I call this the "Insider Strategy" because it gives your clients insider access to the goings- on of your company, and you get insider access to their minds.

A CULT FOLLOWING

Despite his low-key workshop and his small crew (seriously, he's practically a one-man band), Paul Scheiter of Hedgehog Leatherworks is the mammoth, record-breaking pumpkin in his niche. Paul specializes in making handmade high-performance leather sheaths for survival, tactical and hunting knives, which he sells online. His clients are survivalists, the folks who head off into the woods and stay there for weeks at a time with nothing but a knife (and a Hedgehog sheath).

When Paul is getting ready to design a new sheath, he will reach out to the very tight-knit community of 10,000-plus subscribers via video, conference call or email and ask what they want. He'll say, "I'm getting ready to design a new sheath — which knife should I make it for?" He doesn't have to guess what he should make next. There is no focus group that could potentially march him down the wrong path, and he doesn't have to wonder if it will sell. Paul's entire community tells him exactly what they want, in effect, telling him exactly what they'll buy.

As he works on the design, Paul keeps the community engaged by sharing photos of his process, detailed videos and descriptive emails; sending out samples; and hosting group conference calls for those who are invested in the outcome. And with the excitement of watching a product come to life, even if you weren't invested from the start, you get caught up in it along the way.

When Paul is ready to sell the sheath, he makes it available first to the people who helped him develop it (and who can hardly wait to get their hands on it), and then only months, and maybe even a year, later to the general public.

And because his clients are collaborators, they promote the living hell out of these sheaths. They are Hedgehog diehards on a mission to convert other, unsuspecting survivalists to join their ranks. Sounds eerily similar to a cult, right? But what entrepreneur could ask for more than that?

BIG, FAT & HEALTHY
Move in Concentric Circles

When growing mammoth pumpkins, you don't spread your seeds over 17 acres; you focus on half an acre, plant one seed (or two, if you're really ambitious) and focus on tending to and strengthening the vine. Because you have limited resources (time, marketing dollars, etc.), you can't be as effective or as visible if you're covering too much territory.

When you focus on moving within one tight area, prospects and clients see you more frequently. Once we tightened Olmec's niche to working primarily with hedge fund companies, we started hanging out where they hung out. We joined clubs, associations and other groups to which they belonged. We advertised in their trade publications. We went to lunch where they went to lunch. We moved in concentric circles, focusing solely on hedge fund companies until, in their eyes, we were ubiquitous.

There is a threshold of trust, a moment when you've seen someone enough times that you trust them. You think you know them, even though you've never met. Market only to the locations where your key prospects are and they will believe you're everywhere.

THE AIRLINE SAFETY CARD METHOD

Most entrepreneurs struggle making the leap from a one- or two-person startup to a business with 10 or more employees. There are probably 8,097 reasons why we keep making this mistake over and over again, but the top offenders are scarily consistent: 1) We don't think we can afford to hire someone else to do it; 2) When we do hire someone with enough experience (and forgo our own salaries), they are unable or unwilling to do it the right way (our way); 3) Even when we bring in someone we can afford, and who doesn't need to "unlearn" their experience, we don't have time to train them; and 4) Even if we had the money to hire a willing and able staff and had the time to train them, we're fairly confident they would pale in comparison to our own superior abilities. (That last one? That's the biggie. I know you're awesome and I know you've had to do it all and be it all for a long time now, but you can let go. You have to. It will be OK. I promise.)

Here's your "come to Jesus" moment: You cannot scale your business if that means that you do most (or even some) of the work. Period. In fact, if you want to grow a serious business, a Pumpkin Planned business, it requires that you don't do any of the work.

BREAK IT DOWN

When I design systems for my businesses, I always follow what I have dubbed the "Airline Safety Card Method" — I break it down, and break it down, and break it down until the system not only fits on one laminated sheet, but becomes easy for anyone to understand and implement. Then, I take it for a test drive. If my receptionist can do it, if my sales staff can do it, if the pizza delivery guy can do it, it's ready for prime time. If not, I go back to the drawing board and keep at it until they can. Your systems can be mastered only when they can fit on your own version of the Airline Safety Card.

Imagine how fast you could grow your business if you could count on your team to deliver superior service or turn out quality products every time. What projects could you say yes to that you turned down in the past? In what areas could you expand your business that you couldn't before? And the ultimate question ... Could you finally go on vacation, and be making money while you are away ... for an entire month?

KILL THE CURVE

You know what sucks about a bell curve? You're graded based on how well everyone else does. So if you're not a genius, and you want to ace a test, you've got to pray half your class has a hangover or forgot to study.

The product-to-market curve looks just like the bell curve, except everyone is trying to find the best place to land on the curve so they can dominate the market. They want to get in on the market early enough to make the most of "consumer demand."

Entrepreneurs screw up when they try to get in early on the curve and work their way to the top of the heap. They see a trend and they want in on it. The problem is, now they're focused on outplaying the competition, when they should be focused on playing an entirely different game than the competition.

You know you're on the curve if you can say, "I have competitors." When you evaluate and judge your performance against your competitors, innovation is lost; you're just trying to build a better VCR. And at my last garage sale, I couldn't unload my old beast for a measly five dollars.

THE 180 TECHNIQUE

If you label yourself in the same way your competitors label themselves, customers won't be able to distinguish how you are different. One way you can kill the curve is by giving yourself a new label.

Rather than compete with all the circuses of the world, Cirque de Soleil decided to label themselves differently. The label hints at "circus" but at first glance it is different and, therefore, begs prospective customers to ask, "What does that mean?"

When your clients can't easily quantify your new label, they will ask, "What does that mean?" That is your doorway to begin explaining how you are different — the components of your business or offering that make up your 180.

A label, after all, is just a name. You need to back it with some real street cred. You need the goods. You do that with the "180 Technique," one of my favorite ways to kill the curve. First you do an analysis of your industry and define all the parameters — what are all the assumptions about how this industry runs? Then you ask yourself, "What is the exact opposite of that?"

Commerce Bank (now TD Bank, N.A.) pulled a 180 with its "No Stupid Fees, No Stupid Hours" campaign. Commerce Bank stopped taking cues from other banks and started behaving more like a fast-food restaurant. Suddenly customers could bank when it was convenient for them, and they weren't penalized for every little error. Suddenly customers could get same-day service for things that other banks took days to handle. And suddenly, Commerce Bank didn't look like just another bank anymore. It had killed the curve. At a time when many banks were struggling, Commerce Bank just kept growing and growing and growing.

NEXT SEASON

The Pumpkin Plan works in part because of a laser focus on top clients, to the point where you're building an entire niche product or service around their needs. But that means that if that industry dies, your business dies.

Pumpkins die — even giant pumpkins. This is why you need to extract a seed from that giant pumpkin of yours and use it to plant a new one ... when you're ready. Do this only when your first pumpkin is rock-solid strong and operating on autopilot.

How big is big? For some businesses, big is the $10 million mark; but it could be $100 million or even $1 billion. Regardless, I have never seen it happen for companies with gross revenue of less than $10 million (but I'm sure it can happen).

Don't freak out. I'm not telling you to sell your business and start a new one. I'm telling you to prepare to grow something new. Maybe you'll evolve your business — that's what IBM did, leaving computer manufacturing behind to grow a new service business. You may find a new niche that allows you to both exploit your No. 1 strength and better serve your top clients (think of countless came-out-of-nowhere startups like Crocs or Google) — maybe you'll start a new curve; TiVo did this by busting the VHS industry curve. Or maybe you will sell your giant pumpkin and start a new business. But it's inevitable. In order to stay in the game, you're going to have to grow something new.

Super-successful entrepreneurs know how to reinvent themselves and reinvigorate their companies.

However you choose to approach the next season of your business, it's key that you grow something from your handful of giant seeds. That seed to your success is made of your innovation, hard work and genius — why would you want to start over?

Me? I built a computer repair business. Then, I built a computer crime investigation business. Then, I launched a behavioral website design business. Though different applications, all of my businesses are heavily technology-based. It's not just about building on your well of knowledge. It's about cultivating a habit of success.

HOW TO PUMPKIN PLAN YOUR BUSINESS — YOUR STORY

Employing the strategies that worked when you started your business won't get you a giant pumpkin. In the beginning, you had to trust your gut, say yes to all clients and opportunities, do the work yourself, and fly by the seat of your pants. You now need to kill what's not working, nurture what is working and develop systems to repeat the process. This is the essence of the Pumpkin Plan.

You have it in you to grow a remarkable business and contribute to the world in a meaningful way through innovation, by creating jobs, by setting an example of what is possible when you take a risk and go after your big, crazy (and attainable) dream. I believe in you.

The Author

Mike Michalowicz launched and sold two multimillion-dollar companies and currently operates his third, Provendus Group, a consulting firm that ignites explosive growth in companies that have plateaued. He is the author of The Toilet Paper Entrepreneur and is a former small-business columnist for The Wall Street Journal.

From The Pumpkin Plan: A Simple Strategy to Grow a Remarkable Business in Any Field by Mike Michalowicz. Copyright © 2012 by Mike Michalowicz. Adapted by arrangement with the publisher, Portfolio / Penguin, 228 pages, $26.95. ISBN: 978-1- 59184-488-4. Purchase this book from the iBookstore, Amazon or Barnes & Noble.

Summary copyright © 2013 by Soundview Executive Book Summaries® www.summary.com, 1-800-SUMMARY.
